# Bias Algorithms
Demographic Fairness: Modify data (create demographic groups) to address the following three:
1. Relaxed Notion of Balance: Here we do not require the ratio of the points of each demographic in the cluster to be exactly the same as the ratio of its points over the whole dataset. We rather relax this condition, and ask for a ratio that is within a certain input given range. This concept was simultaneously introduced by [8, 7] in the context of k-clustering. It was later studied for hierarchical clustering by [2], in a stochastic setting by [16], and with a fairness maximization objective by [15].
2. Fairness in Center Selection: In the context of k-clustering where k cluster centers need to be selected, it is reasonable to impose fairness constraints on the set of selected centers. The work of [24, 21] focuses on avoiding over-representation of any demographic group in the set of selected centers, while [31] focuses on avoiding under-representation of any group in the chosen centers.
3. Socially Fair k-Clustering: In many clustering applications, the quantity that really matters to each point is the distance to its assigned center. Hence, in the presence of multiple demographic groups it makes sense to consider a fairness metric that looks at the average assignment distance of each demographic. [1, 17] independently introduced a model where the objective is to minimize the maximum average assignment distance over all demographic groups. Later on, [27, 18] gave improved results for the problem.

Individual Fairness:
1. Notions of Individual Fairness that follow the paradigm of [14]: In order to translate the paradigm of [14] to a well-defined clustering problem, one needs to answer two questions. The first is how can we define similarity between points in the context of clustering? The second is what does similar treatment mean in a clustering problem? The first question is a modeling issue and hence not that important. The second one is far more crucial, since the answer to it defines what we perceive as fair treatment. Therefore, we proceed with the following categorization.
2. Similar treatment in the sense of receiving similar assignment distances: As we mentioned earlier, in many clustering applications, the quantity that really matters to each point is the distance to its assigned center. The work of [11] tries to provide comparable assignment distances to similar points.

Notions of Individual Fairness that diverge from the paradigm of [14]: 
1. A Center in My Neighborhood: In certain applications, minimizing a global objective on the assignment distances, e.g., the k-means objective, does not suffice in order to capture the special needs of individual points. For instance, some points may require an assignment distance much smaller than what other points can tolerate. Hence, it is reasonable to seek solutions where we do not only minimize the global objective, but also try to satisfy the individual distance needs of every point. This model was introduced in [22], and increasingly better results were given in a subsequent series of papers [26, 29, 32].

Resources: https://www.fairclustering.com/
